Serious Eats / Amanda SuarezCome fall and winter, well after juicy tomatoes and sweet corn have faded from market stands, butternut squash steps in to become the star ingredient in many kitchens. Butternut squash is a member of the cucurbita family, along with other winter squash varieties like delicata, acorn, kabocha, and red kuri squash (not to mention the larger gourd family of cucumbers, melons, and summer squash). The vegetable’s deep orange flesh is sweet and starchy, and its versatility makes the ingredient a favorite among many home cooks who use it in salads, soups, pastas, and more. Serious Eats / Amanda SuarezI often use butternut squash in place of pumpkin when cooking. Barring the major aesthetic differences in shape and size, butternut squash is very similar in taste and texture to pumpkins, and is often even sweeter and more flavorful than pumpkin itself. Once the squash is harvested, it’s left in storage to “cure” for 10 to 14 days before it is sold and eaten. As the squash sits, the plant converts starches into sugars, which become more concentrated and results in a richer, more flavorful vegetable.Whole, fresh butternut squash is hardy and can last for up to three months when stored in a cool, dry place. Though it can be difficult to gauge the ripeness of butternut squash, you’ll want to look for a gourd that feels hefty and is firm to the touch, but sounds hollow when tapped. It should go without saying, but avoid moldy, bruised squash. Many grocery stores sell prepped butternut squash that’s been peeled and cubed—while this is convenient and will work in a pinch, the flesh has been exposed to air for much longer and is therefore likely to spoil much faster.Like prepped fresh squash, the frozen stuff is incredibly convenient: there’s no need to peel, deseed, or chop. Depending on what you’re cooking, frozen butternut squash may be a suitable alternative to using fresh. Freezing vegetables causes the water to expand and ice crystals to form and puncture cell walls, and as the vegetables thaw, the water melts and causes the vegetables to weep and become soggy. For crisp, roasted squash—or any preparation where you want the squash to hold its shape—you’re better off using fresh. But if you’re planning on making a blended soup, mash, purée, or other recipe where the structural integrity of the vegetable isn’t important, frozen will work just fine.According to the Oregon State University’s Department of Horticulture, squash should be stored between 50º to 55ºF; any cooler, and the squash will quickly decay and dry out on the inside. The gourds should be kept in a dry place and away from ripening fruit that releases ethylene gas, like apples, pears, and bananas, as this may shorten their shelf life.To store squash in your freezer, peel the vegetable, remove its seeds, and cut into 1-inch cubes. Lay the cubes flat on a parchment-lined sheet tray and place in the freezer. When frozen, you can transfer the squash into a freezer-friendly zip-tip bag.To cut butternut squash, start by trimming the top and the base. To peel the squash, hold it in one hand, and run a sharp peeler down the sides of the gourd to remove its skin. If the squash is too firm to peel with a peeler, you can remove the skin with a sharp serrated knife or soften it in the microwave. For the microwave method, place the squash in a microwave-safe bowl with some water (two tablespoons of water for every pound of squash) and microwave on high in three minute intervals.

Once peeled, cut the squash in half lengthwise and use a large spoon to remove the seeds and any stringy pulp. Discard the seeds or set them aside for roasting.While this guide is focused on roasting—the method we use most often for butternut squash—there are multiple ways to cook the vegetable. Here are some of the most common:As mentioned above, in most instances, we find roasting to be the ideal way to prepare squash. It's worth noting that you can also combine methods, for example first roasting and then simmering the squash: We often recommend roasting your squash before adding it to soups and stews for a more flavorful final result.To speed up the squash’s caramelization in the oven, you can toss the vegetable with a pinch of baking soda before placing it in the oven. Baking soda also helps to soften and break down pectin, a fiber that contributes to the firm texture of squash, which is helpful when mashing or puréeing the squash after. While a lower temperature like 375ºF (190ºC) may be ideal for certain vegetables like carrots and parsnips, we’ve found 400ºF (204ºC) to 425ºF (218ºC) to be the best temperature range for roasting squash in the oven. Roasting at these temperatures brings out the gourd’s sweetness and results in slightly crisp, caramelized edges and a tender, creamy interior.Any neutral oil—vegetable, canola, or grapeseed—is suitable for roasting. But if you’re looking for a versatile oil that’s also flavorful, we recommend using olive oil. Because of olive oil’s low smoke point of 325 to 375ºF (165 to 190ºC), some people may hesitate to cook with olive oil when using high heat, but there isn’t any credible evidence that it’s bad for your health, so go ahead and roast your butternut squash in olive oil without worry.Alternatively, butter, ghee, and coconut oil are also good options for roasting squash. Ghee, which is clarified and lacks the water, proteins, and sugars of butter, is less likely to burn at high temperatures and will lend your squash a rich, nutty flavor. If you’re roasting squash in butter, you may see enhanced browning because of the sugars and proteins in the dairy—just be careful that there may be a higher chance of burning if you aren’t watching your squash closely.Serious Eats / Amanda SuarezKeep in mind that unrefined coconut oil will impart a tropical flavor onto your squash, which may be suitable for some recipes but may not be what you’re looking for in others. For coconut oil with a more neutral flavor, look for refined coconut oil instead. Recipe Facts5(1)Rate & CommentPreheat the oven to 400ºF (200ºC). Toss squash with olive oil, salt, and baking soda (if using), and arrange on a rimmed baking sheet, making sure not to overcrowd the sheet. Roast, using a thin metal spatula to turn pieces 2 or 3 times during cooking, until squash is tender and golden brown, about 25 minutes. Set aside.Rimmed baking sheetIf using baking soda, watch the squash carefully as it cooks since baking soda acts as an accelerant for browning and the sugars can easily burn. Baking soda also helps to soften and break down pectin, a fiber that contributes to the firm texture of squash, which is helpful when mashing or puréeing the squash after. If you’re looking for squash with more bite, skip the baking soda.You can also use a neutral oil like canola or grapeseed, clarified butter like ghee, coconut oil (unrefined will lend a tropical flavor, while refined will be more neutral), or melted butter. Note that melted butter can burn more easily, so keep a closer eye on the squash if you use it.Roasted butternut squash can be refrigerated in an airtight container for up to 2 to 3 days. Reheat before eating.