Nostalgia is a strange feeling. As quickly as it can flood you with warm and fuzzy emotions that harken back to the idyllic days of your youth, it can deliver equally depressing pangs of sorrow that remind you of your own mortality and gnawing sense of discontentment. However, like any drug worth its weight in baking soda, the initial high far outweighs the inevitable comedown, hence why the nostalgia business is continuing to boom. Recent reports have shown that 1/4 of all toy sales come from adults buying toys for themselves.One of the franchises that helped instill the Millennial obsession with collecting toys is the original Mighty Morphing Power Rangers series from the early 90s. You can check out the trailer for the Netflix 30th anniversary reunion special in the video linked above. Even though Jason David Frank, a long-tenured fixture in the franchise, turned the project down, the fact that the trailer was released so close to his tragic death practically ensures the project will be even more bittersweet than it would've been organically. Pulp Fiction is a classic. Even if Tarantino isn't your favorite director, odds are you've probably seen the movie more than twice. The film has reached such an unfathomable level of…
READ THE RESTVideo game movies are a hot commodity in modern Hollywood. For several decades, movie studios have struggled to transfer the magic of video games to the silver screen. Until very…
READ THE RESTIn the 90s, Kenan & Kel ruled children's television. Kenan and Kel's unmatched comedic talent in the sketches of Nickelodeon's All That, a kid's version of Saturday Night Live, propelled the duo into a spin-off…
READ THE RESTWe thank our sponsor for making this content possible; it is not written by the editorial staff nor does it necessarily reflect its views. There are certain things that are…
READ THE RESTWe thank our sponsor for making this content possible; it is not written by the editorial staff nor does it necessarily reflect its views. Wireless headphones are no longer a…
READ THE RESTWe thank our sponsor for making this content possible; it is not written by the editorial staff nor does it necessarily reflect its views. Calling all athletes, workout enthusiasts, and…
READ THE RESTRead the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted.