At a Taco Bell in Centennial, Colorado, a customer and employee were engaged in a heated exchange apparently over a broken soda machine. Police were called and the customer left after receiving a free bonus burrito. Unfortunately, the burrito reportedly contained rat poison and the man got "violently ill." From WBIR:[Police went to the man's house where they] learned from the victim that he had gone home, done chores and watched some TV before eating the food items he had purchased earlier at Taco Bell.The man said he immediately became violently ill and called 911. The Sheriff's Office said he was taken by ambulance to the hospital. It was confirmed that there was rat poison in the food, the Sheriff's Office said.Surveillance video from both the interior and exterior areas of the Taco Bell restaurant was collected as evidence.Taco Bell released a statement, "The safety of customers and team members is a priority. The franchisee who owns and operates this location has informed us that they are working with local authorities in their investigation."KFC Thailand has launched a line of incense that smells like fried chicken. The incense sticks are also meant to resemble the fast food chain's chicken. For now, the incense…
READ THE RESTRocco the horse was in the mood for ice cream so he pulled through the McDonald's drive-through for a soft serve cone. As one does. Another customer at the New…
READ THE RESTIn-N-Out, the beloved California-based chain with the killer burgers and lousy fries (fight me!) is opening its first Eastern US "territory office" near Nashville along with, yes, a number of…
READ THE RESTWe thank our sponsor for making this content possible; it is not written by the editorial staff nor does it necessarily reflect its views. Wireless headphones are no longer a…
READ THE RESTWe thank our sponsor for making this content possible; it is not written by the editorial staff nor does it necessarily reflect its views. Calling all athletes, workout enthusiasts, and…
READ THE RESTWe thank our sponsor for making this content possible; it is not written by the editorial staff nor does it necessarily reflect its views. Cooler temperatures are usually considered a…
READ THE RESTRead the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted.