Subscribe and get the latest recipes!A free 7-day, flexible weight loss meal plan including breakfast, lunch and dinner ideas and a shopping list. All recipes include macros and links to WW recipe builder to get your personal points.Hey guys! I just wanted to let everyone know that we have been working on a new site design and I am SO excited it is near completion!!! With that being said, please take note that the site will be DOWN for about 4 hours on Wednesday (January 25th) so I would suggest printing out any recipes you need for that day by Tuesday. I hope you all will love the new site as much as I do! Keep all those comments coming, I love hearing from you!With grocery prices soaring, many of us are having to adjust, scale back and/or get more creative with our meals. One of the absolute BEST ways to stay within a budget and maintain healthy eating habits is to MEAL PLAN. You can get more 5-day Budget Friendly Meal Plans by signing up for Relish+ (get a 14-day free trial here!)I’m also excited to share the Skinnytaste Ultimate Meal Planner is now available! The 52 week spiral bound meal planner has weekly meal planning grids you can tear out and put on your fridge if you wish, a 12-week meal plan, 30 (15 new) recipes, and tear-out grocery lists. I love starting my week with gratitude, affirmations and intentions, so I included a space for that as well. I hope you will love this as much as I do!Buy the meal planner here:All recipe points have been updated to reflect the new WW program, points will display under the recipe title. I will keep the  orange button in the recipe card, click on that and it takes you to the Weight Watchers website where you can see the WW points and add it to your day (US only, you must be logged into your account). All cookbook recipes in the cookbook index are also updated!If you’re new to my meal plans, I’ve been sharing these free, 7-day flexible healthy meal plans (you can see my previous meal plans here) that are meant as a guide, with plenty of wiggle room for you to add more food, coffee, beverages, fruits, snacks, dessert, wine, etc. or swap recipes out for meals you prefer, you can search for recipes by course in the index. Depending on your goals, you should aim for at least 1500 calories* per day. There’s no one size fits all, this will range by your goals, your age, weight, etc.There’s also a precise, organized grocery list that will make grocery shopping so much easier and much less stressful. Save you money and time. You’ll dine out less often, waste less food and you’ll have everything you need on hand to help keep you on track.Lastly, if you’re on Facebook join my Skinnytaste Facebook Community where everyone’s sharing photos of recipes they are making, you can join here. I’m loving all the ideas everyone’s sharing! If you wish to get on the email list, you can subscribe here so you never miss a meal plan!Breakfast and lunch Monday-Friday, are designed to serve 1 while dinners and all meals on Saturday and Sunday are designed to serve a family of 4. Some recipes make enough leftovers for two nights or lunch the next day. The grocery list is comprehensive and includes everything you need to make all meals on the plan.MONDAY (1/23)
B: Freezer Breakfast Burritos*
L: Tuna Egg Salad over 2 cups mixed greens
D: Borscht with Lemony Hearts of Palm Salad with Avocado and 1 slice rye breadTotal Calories: 984**TUESDAY (1/24)
B: Freezer Breakfast Burritos
L: Tuna Egg Salad over 2 cups mixed greens
D: Turkey Chili Taco Soup with 2 tablespoons shredded cheddar and 1 ounce avocadoTotal Calories: 929**WEDNESDAY (1/25)
B: Freezer Breakfast Burritos
L: LEFTOVER Turkey Chili Taco Soup with 2 tablespoons shredded cheddar and 1 ounce avocado
D: Crispy Breaded Air Fryer Pork Chops with Roasted Brussels Sprouts and Shallots with Balsamic GlazeTotal Calories: 1,092**THURSDAY (1/26)
B: Zucchini Oats
L: LEFTOVER Turkey Chili Taco Soup with 2 tablespoons shredded cheddar and 1 ounce avocado
D: Chicken Stuffed Peppers with White Beans with Cilantro Lime Cauliflower RiceTotal Calories: 1,133**FRIDAY (1/27)
B: Zucchini Oats
L: LEFTOVER Chicken Stuffed Peppers with White Beans
D: Blackened Fish with Key Lime Tartar with Quick Cabbage Slaw
Total Calories: 1,207**SATURDAY (1/28)
B: Insanely Good Blueberry Oatmeal Muffins with 1 scrambled egg
L: Chicken Shiitake and Wild Rice Soup with Everything Parmesan Crisps (recipe x 2)
D: DINNER OUTTotal Calories: 465**SUNDAY (1/29)
B: LEFTOVER Insanely Good Blueberry Oatmeal Muffins with ¾ cup nonfat plain Greek yogurt with 1 teaspoon honey
L: LEFTOVER Chicken Shiitake and Wild Rice Soup with Everything Parmesan Crisps
D: Giant Turkey Meatball Parmesan with Broccoli and Orzo
Total Calories: 937***Prep Sunday night, if desired.
**This is just a guide, women should aim for around 1500 calories per day. Here’s a helpful calculator to estimate
your calorie needs. I’ve left plenty of wiggle room for you to add more food such as coffee, beverages, fruits,
snacks, dessert, wine, etc.*Google docShopping ListProduceMeat, Poultry and FishGrains*Condiments and SpicesDairy & Misc. Refrigerated ItemsCanned and JarredMisc. Dry GoodsNon-Food Items*You can buy gluten free, if desiredYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Name*Email*Super excited to see the new site!Thank you for these weekly meal plans. They have been helping me SO MUCH!I am so glad you find them helpful!How exciting! It’s been working MUCH better on my iPhone recently, too! Congrats! We can’t wait to see the new site.Subscribe to my weekly email newsletter for a FREE and you'll get the latest meal ideas & new recipes every week!Please check the following to indicate you would like to receive emails from Skinnytaste.You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails.Stay up to date wherever you are!