There’s so much choice, you may now find something you like enough to drink even after Dry JanuaryA
dvice on alcohol-free drinking is normally dispensed at the beginning of January, but it strikes me that it might be more useful at the end of the month. After all, if you have experienced the benefits of Dry January, you may want to continue, at least part-time. And if you didn’t, you may well be wondering if you should have done. Either way, you could probably do with a bit of inspiration.There’s no shortage of products on the market these days, and the main problem with them is they don’t come cheap. Sipsmith’s excellent Freeglider, for example, which has been on promotion for £20 at Waitrose, has reverted to £22.50, while Seedlip’s orangey Grove 42, to which I’ve been converted thanks to my 12-year-old grandson, who used it to make a most impressive cocktail over Christmas (a G&T with Fentiman’s Valencian orange tonic and a wedge of lime), is back up at £26.50, having been on offer recently at £18.That’s a lot to pay for an alcohol-free product that doesn’t incur tax (or not as much as a full-strength gin, anyway). Producers often argue that, because alcohol is a more efficient solvent than water, they have to use additional, expensive ingredients to give their products complexity and flavour, but it’s hard not to be left with the impression that they charge a premium mainly because they can. Against that is the argument that you’re more likely not to drink booze if you have something non-alcoholic that you regard as a treat, rather than something you don’t actually enjoy.There is also the additional problem that some people who are trying to cut back in the longer term find that products that resemble their alcoholic equivalents too closely may lead them back into drinking again, so if you’re buying a bottle for a friend who’s not drinking, don’t assume that the closer it is to its non-alcoholic equivalent, the better (kombucha may be a better option than an alcohol-free beer, for example).Despite the number of new products on the market, many pubs and restaurants still offer limited options. It would be helpful to see a much wider range for non-drinkers, but the good news is that more dedicated, alcohol-free bars and shops are opening up. The campaigning group Club Soda, for example, now has a tasting room in Covent Garden where you can taste a wide range of alcohol-free drinks (there’s a longer list on the drinkaware websitedrinkaware.co.uk).My tip? Even if you’re cutting back rather than cutting out, start the evening with an alcohol-free drink or cocktail. At the very least, this will cut down your overall intake. And at best, you may find you end up having a night out without booze.Gunner The Saint £1.95 (330ml) alcoholfreedrinks.co.uk, £22.99 for a case of 12 originalgunner.com. A refreshingly citrussy drink with a hint of ginger (basically a sexed-up Sprite). Serve with ice and a twist of lime.Momo Turmeric Kombucha £3.90 (330ml) Ocado, £3.99 Planet Organic. The turmeric is actually quite subtle, and the dominant note is citrus. Probiotic, raw and unfiltered. You could almost certainly make yourself a cheaper kombucha, but it’s quite a faff.Wiper And True Tomorrow Lager £15 for 6 x 440ml cans. Really good, characterful, German-style helles from one of Bristol’s best breweries. A boon for any beer drinker who’s trying to cut back.Highball Classic G&T £1.99 (250ml) drinknolow.co.uk, £4.49 Laithwaites. A pre-mixed “gin” and tonic based on juniper and other botanicals to serve over ice with a wedge of lemon or lime. A useful bottle to take to a party.Lyre’s Classico £9.99 (or £53 by the case). Handsomely bottled, pleasantly appley, alcohol-free fizz that would do duty for prosecco. Maybe one to lay in for Valentine’s Day if you or your partner isn’t drinking.For more by Fiona Beckett, go to fionabeckett.substack.comThe year is 2033. Elon Musk is no longer one of the richest people in the world, having haemorrhaged away his fortune trying to make Twitter profitable. Which, alas, hasn’t worked out too well: only 420 people are left on the platform. Everyone else was banned for not laughing at Musk’s increasingly desperate jokes. In other news, Pete Davidson is now dating Martha Stewart. Donald Trump is still threatening to run for president. And British tabloids are still churning out 100 articles a day about whether Meghan Markle eating lunch is an outrageous snub to the royal family.Obviously I have no idea what the world is going to look like in a decade. But here’s one prediction I feel very confident making: without a free and fearless press the future will be bleak. Without independent journalism, democracy is doomed. Without journalists who hold power to account, the future will be entirely shaped by the whims and wants of the 1%.A lot of the 1% are not big fans of the Guardian, by the way. Donald Trump once praised a Montana congressman who body-slammed a Guardian reporter. Musk, meanwhile, has described the Guardian as “the most insufferable newspaper on planet Earth”. I’m not sure there is any greater compliment.I am proud to write for the Guardian. But ethics can be expensive. Not having a paywall means that the Guardian has to regularly ask our readers to chip in. If you are able, please do consider supporting us. Only with your help can we continue to get on Elon Musk’s nerves.Arwa MahdawiColumnist, Guardian US