The traditional rustic loaf gets a sweet makeoverS
oda bread is normally pitched as being perfect for people who are a bit scared of making bread. It is much more forgiving than traditional yeasted doughs, and comes together in a fraction of the time. But there are other reasons to make it. Quite simply, it is a delicious, homely bread that I think everyone should have in their repertoire. I’ve taken this version over to the sweet side, but it still holds on to the original’s rustic charm. This bread is best served warm, with lots of salted butter and an extra drizzle of honey.Prep 10 min
Cook 45 min
Serves 8350g plain flour
1 tsp bicarbonate of soda
1 tsp cinnamon
½ tsp mixed spice
½ tsp salt
50g cold unsalted butter, cubed, plus extra to serve
150g stoned dates, finely chopped
75g dark chocolate, roughly chopped
200ml buttermilk
60g honey, plus extra to serve
1 eggHeat the oven to 200C (180C fan)/390F/gas 6 and line a baking tray with greaseproof paper.Put the flour, bicarb, cinnamon, mixed spice and salt in a large bowl, add all the cubed butter and rub it in with your fingertips, until the mix resembles coarse breadcrumbs. Add the chopped dates and chocolate, then toss to coat.In a jug, mix the buttermilk, honey and egg, then pour this into the dry ingredients and use a table knife to combine and bring it all together into a dough. Turn out the dough on to a well-floured surface, give it just a few quick, light kneads, then transfer to the lined tray and use a sharp knife to cut a deep cross intothe top of it.Bake for 45-50 minutes, until the loaf is well browned and sounds hollow when tapped underneath. Leave to cool a little before slicing and eating warm with butter and an extra drizzle of honey.I hope you appreciated this article. Before you move on, I was hoping you would consider taking the step of supporting the Guardian’s journalism. From Elon Musk to Rupert Murdoch, a small number of billionaire owners have a powerful hold on so much of the information that reaches the public about what’s happening in the world. The Guardian is different. We have no billionaire owner or shareholders to consider. Our journalism is produced to serve the public interest – not profit motives.And we avoid the trap that befalls much US media – the tendency, born of a desire to please all sides, to engage in false equivalence in the name of neutrality. While fairness guides everything we do, we know there is a right and a wrong position in the fight against racism and for reproductive justice. When we report on issues like the climate crisis, we’re not afraid to name who is responsible. And as a global news organization, we’re able to provide a fresh, outsider perspective on US politics – one so often missing from the insular American media bubble. Around the world, readers can access the Guardian’s paywall-free journalism because of our unique reader-supported model. That’s because of people like you. Our readers keep us independent, beholden to no outside influence and accessible to everyone – whether they can afford to pay for news, or not.If you can, please consider supporting the Guardian today. Thank you.Betsy ReedEditor, Guardian US