On January 17, 2023, Condé Nast’s Privacy Policy was updated to clarify existing disclosures about our processing of personal information, and to include rights available to some users under applicable local law. By using our products and services, you agree to the updated Privacy Policy and User Agreement, which can be found in the website footer.By Rick BarotOne of them is still there, in the smell of burnt toast
and dirty clothes that was my twenties, always waiting
to be picked up outside some station, that tenderness
set against each building’s law of metal and stone.One of them is still on a slope of the Sandias,
jeans pushed down to his knees
so I can pick out the cactus needles from his thigh.
The sky is late, the color of grape soda. In weeks, he will go
to a war, write letters that now sleep in a box
in the basement, next to a box of Christmas ornaments.I open a book I read in college
and one of them is in the margins, his handwriting
an enthusiastic vine, like the vines at the edges
of medieval texts, each “O” of his cursive a tiny horse chestnut,
the paperback’s pages yellow as a smoker’s fingers.Another one is still on his motorcycle
between Connecticut and Manhattan, driving a cab on weekends
for his tuition. On the nights I rode behind him,
my head against the black leather of his back, I knew
I would die many times before my death.One death for the one walking down Iowa Avenue,
brooding on the problem of wearing a jacket
over a Halloween costume. One death
for the one scorned by his parents and brothers.
One death for the one locked for days in his room, drawing lines
in a notebook, over and over and over.Standing in front of a glass case in a museum, he is beside me,
looking at the silver hand
resting like a claw on the gray velvet.
Another one is in his grandfather’s miles of orchards,
a place more immense because he is a boy
lost in it, even though everything he sees is his kingdom.There is no logic in what we keep.
The freckles on his forearms. The surgery scar
on his shoulder. The reliquary that outlasts the bone of the saint.In the coffeehouse, I see them, the lovers,
the two teen-age boys on a couch,
cuddling into one fused shape, one boy holding a phone
they lean toward, their faces lit by the platinum glow.
I have been them, and whatever comes after,and it has taken all my heart to contain both.
There is no logic in what we keep, even of ourselves.I am near him on a winter beach, the sky above shining like coal.
I am sitting with him on a sidewalk
and he is weeping. I am alone in a hotel room,
thinking of all the ice machines on every floor of every hotel
in the world, the sad machines dreaming
of each pure cube of light.By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement.By Henry ShukmanBy Patti SmithBy Hannah AizenmanBy Han KangSectionsMore© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices